in today's multi-platform multi tasking
media fragmented world where viewers
face constant distraction engagement has
become a key media metric YouTube
therefore wanted to investigate how
consumers attention levels differ on
YouTube and TV whether people are more
engaged on YouTube than TV and if so
what does this mean for advertisers and
finally how do you tube and TV work
together in order to do this youtube
works together with Otx and partnered
with mine share Motorola and GM Corsa to
field a groundbreaking study which used
a unique combination of four separate
methodologies to explore and prove the
value of user engagement on YouTube we
firstly measured people's responses
using biometrics a scientifically proven
technique measuring heart rate skin
conductance movement and breathing which
when combined produce measures of both
attention and engagement we also
measured where people look using
eye-tracking on YouTube we talked to
people about advertising on YouTube and
TV with in-depth interviews finally we
used an online survey to create groups
of respondents that were exposed to
different combinations of advertising
either on YouTube TV or both combined
and asked them a series of questions a
total of eighteen hundred respondents
were interviewed
overall users are one and a half times
more attentive on YouTube than on TV
engagement levels on YouTube are
amplified one hundred and forty percent
over those on TV both positively and
negatively people notice ads on YouTube
not only on the homepage but also on
video watch pages this is good news for
advertisers as higher levels of
attention and engagement leads to higher
cut through and recognition rates
watching an ad on YouTube significantly
increases ad recall and attribution up
to fourteen percent higher than watching
the same ad on TV combining YouTube ad
impressions with TV lifts brand
perceptions higher than TV up to four
times higher than TV alone there is also
a brand halo effect resulting from
advertising on YouTube consumers
perceive brands as more youthful dynamic
and innovative when exposed to their
advertising on YouTube finally combining
YouTube and TV also makes consumers more
likely to buy your brand
research shows that YouTube is an
engaging lean forward platform for
advertising weather combined with TV or
used alone people notice ads on YouTube
which can improve brand cook through and
ultimately leads to enhanced perception
of your brand what can YouTube do for
your brand
you